# Blockchain Implementation using Nodejs

Investigate Blockchain Principles:


a. Peer to Peer Network

It consists of a collection of connected nodes. Peer to peer networks
distribute the entire workload among users who have equal access to resources.
Blockchain does not require an internal or external trust authority to function.
Users share the data, and each user has a copy of the hashed blocks and
transactions. The data of each transaction can be shared by the peers to the
entire network. Nobody can change the chain data because it is not saved on a
single entity but rather on a network of nodes. A data block is added to the chain
after it has been verified by the users, at which point all users update their
copies. The network won't accept a modified block if an attacker tries to alter
data on any local node.


b. Decentralized System

The entire database and its history are completely accessible to everyone
in the blockchain. The data is not controlled by a third party. Without using an
intermediary, every user on the network can immediately validate the
transactions.


c. Security

Blockchain enables the verification and traceability of multi-step
transactions that require such functions. It can speed up data transfer
procedures, offer secure transactions, and lower compliance expenses.
Blockchain technology can facilitate contract management and verify a
product's origin. Also, blockchain structures have hash which is a fixed-length
alphanumeric string generated by processing the data in the block. It serves as a
unique identifier for the block. And, each block contains a hash to the previous
block in the chain which creates a chronological order of blocks. Blockchain
structures rely on a Proof of Work or Proof of Stake to validate and agree on the
transactions that are added to the blockchain.


Course: Blockchain Technologies

Assignment: Implementing a Basic Blockchain with Merkle Tree

Group: IT-2102
